# Project Investigate The Movie Database (TMDb)

## Introduction
The Movie Database (TMDb) is an online source of movies built by its online community. In addition to metadata about movies, it offers posters and fan art for download. The data set used for our analysis is a subset of the movies available on their website. It includes information about approximately 10,000 movies, genres, production companies, budget and revenue.

## Questions explored in the project:

What are the top 3 most common genres from the dataset?
During which season of the year most movies tend to be released?
Is there a correlation between seasonality and popularity?
Which movie has the highest revenue?
Which titles are the most and least profitable?
During which season movies tend to have the highest revenues?
In which season movies get the higest return on investment?
Do movies with high revenues have higher voting average?

## Data set features description
- **id** - A unique identifier for each movie
- **imdb_id** - A unique identifier for each movie from the imdb original dataset
- **popularity** - A numeric quantity specifying the movie popularity
- **budget** - The budget in which the movie was made
- **revenue** - The worldwide revenue generated by the movie
- **original_title** - The title of the movie before translation or adaptation
- **cast** - The name of lead and supporting actors
- **homepage** - A link to the homepage of the movie
- **director** - The name of the director
- **tagline** - Movie's tagline
- **keywords** - The keywords or tags related to the movie
- **overview** - A brief description of the movie
- **runtime** - The running time of the movie in minutes
- **genres** - The genre of the movie, Action, Comedy ,Thriller etc
- **production_companies** - The production house of the movie
- **release_date** - The date on which the movie was released
- **vote_count** - the count of votes recieved
- **vote_average** - average ratings the movie recieved
- **release_year** - The year on which the movie was released
- **budget_adj** - budget in terms of 2010 dollars, accounting for inflation over time
- **revenue_adj** - revenue in terms of 2010 dollars, accounting for inflation over time
